---
author: "Chen Li"
title: "Conda 101"
date: "2023-03-27"
tags: 
- programming
---

This article is a quick guidance to use Anaconda & Miniconda on Windows. I wrote it so that I can check the command myself. Sorry about other platforms such as Linux, WSL on Windows or MacOS, but the §2 should be useful too.

## §1 Anaconda

Go the the official website [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) and download the default exe file. Open and install it. Get familiar with Jupyter Notebook. Feel free to check out some other articles and mess around, knowing that you can always delete the old environment and start from scratch, you'll be fine. And that, is the most important message from this article.

## §2 Miniconda

For Windows: Go the the official website [Miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) and download the default exe file. Open and install it.

For Linux: Use the commands shown in the website to download and install it. A few commands that could useful in a Linux system when `conda init <SHELL_NAME>`:

- To see shell type:
    
    ```bash
    echo $SHELL
    ```
    
    most Linux systems use `bash`, so in this case `conda init <SHELL_NAME>` would be:
    
    ```bash
    conda init bash
    ```

- To close and restart the shell (for `bash`):
    
    ```bash
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```

### §2.1 Commands

If you want to install new packages, such as [`TensorFlow`](https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/user-guide/tasks/tensorflow/), it's necessary to create a new environment so that these environments don't conflict, the official documents are always useful, and some commonly used commands after you opened the Anaconda Prompt (miniconda3) are:

- See the environments created:
    
    ```bash
    conda info -e
    # or
    conda info --envs
    ```

- Create a new environment, such as `envName` (the name can be something you prefer):
    
    ```bash
    conda create -n envName
    # remember to change the name!
    # or
    conda create --name envName
    # with python=3.7
    conda create -n envName python=3.7
    ```

- Activate a certain environment, such as `envName`：
    
	```bash
    conda activate envName
    ```

- Deactivate the current environment:
    
	```bash
    conda deactivate
    ```

- Delete a certain environment, such as `envName`:
    
	```bash
    conda remove -n envName --all
    ```

- Install packages, such as [`numpy`](https://github.com/numpy/numpy), [`matplotlib`](https://github.com/matplotlib/matplotlib), [`torch`](https://pytorch.org/), [`torchinfo`](https://github.com/TylerYep/torchinfo), [`jupyterlab`](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab):
    
	```bash
    pip install numpy
    # or
    pip install numpy -i https://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/
    # 临时从镜像阿里云下载
    ```

- See the packages installed in the `envName` environment:
    
	```bash
    conda activate envName
    conda list
    # or
    pip list
    ```

- Export the list of the packages installed in current environment as a `.txt` file:
    
	```bash
    conda list --export > requirements.txt
    ```

- Export the list of the packages installed in the `envName` environment as a `.yaml` file with full environment information:
    
	```bash
    conda env export --name envName --file requirements.yaml
    ```

- Clear cache (Remove index cache, lock files, unused cache packages, and tarballs):
    
    ```bash
    conda clean --all
    ```

### §2.2 Install Jupyter Notebook 7 in Miniconda

[Jupyter Notebook 7](https://blog.jupyter.org/announcing-jupyter-notebook-7-8d6d66126dcf) looks a lot like JupyterLab. After v7.0.0a, v7.0.0b and so on, [v7.0.1](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/releases/tag/v7.0.1) is released on 31 July 2023. What I like best about Jupyter Notebook 7 is Table of Content, few buttons on the upper-right of each notebook block, and the Visual Debugger that can run code line by line and show variables.

What's worth mentioning is that installing Jupyter Notebook 7 will install JupyterLab too, so you might as well just install JupyterLab.

1. Since the `base` environment of Miniconda is kind of empty, you can install Jupyter Notebook on a new environment.
    
	```bash
    conda create -n jupyter
    activate jupyter
    pip install notebook
    ```

2. Open Jupyter Notebook:
    
	```bash
    activate jupyter
    jupyter notebook
    ```

3. After this, there should be a `jupyter-notebook.exe` file in `.\miniconda3\envs\jupyter\Scripts` folder. Now run 
    
    ```bash
    jupyter notebook --generate-config
    ```
    
    You will see a `jupyter_notebook_config.py` file in `C:\Users\yourUserName\.jupyter` folder. Then find this line:
    
    ```python
    # c.ServerApp.notebook_dir = ''
    ```
    
    Change this line into:
    
    ```python
    c.ServerApp.notebook_dir = 'C:\Folder\You\Like'
    ```
    
    Next time you can double click `jupyter-notebook.exe` and it will open Jupyter Notebook in `C:\Folder\You\Like` folder. Now you can create a start menu shortcut for this .exe file or something. (And there should be a `jupyter-lab.exe` in the `.\miniconda3\envs\jupyter\Scripts` folder, you can open it as well.)

4. If you want to change to other environments such as `envName` when using Jupyter Notebook:
    
	```bash
    conda activate jupyter
    conda install nb_conda_kernels
    conda activate envName
    conda install ipykernel
    python -m ipykernel install --user --name=envName
    ```

5. Delete the `envName` environment in Jupyter Notebook:
    
	```bash
    conda activate jupyter
    jupyter kernelspec uninstall envName
    ```

- Convert notebook.ipynb to .py:
    
    ```python
    jupyter nbconvert --to python notebook.ipynb
    ```