---
author: "Chen Li"
title: "Conda 101"
date: "2023-03-27"
tags: 
- CS
---

This article is a quick guidance to use Anaconda & Miniconda on Windows. I wrote it so that I can check the command myself. Sorry about other platforms such as Linux, WSL on Windows or MacOS, but the §2 should be useful too.

## §1 Anaconda

Go the the official website [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) and download the default exe file. Open and install it. Get familiar with Jupyter Notebook. Feel free to check out some other articles and mess around, knowing that you can always delete the old environment and start from scratch, you'll be fine. And that, is the most important message from this article.

## §2 Miniconda

Go the the official website [Miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html) and download the default exe file. Open and install it.

If you want to install new packages, such as [TensorFlow](https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/user-guide/tasks/tensorflow/), it's necessary to create a new environment so that these environments don't conflict, the official documents are always useful, and some commonly used commands after you opened the Anaconda Prompt (miniconda3) are:

- See the environments created：
```prompt
conda info -e
# or
conda info --envs
```

- Create a new environment, such as `envName` (the name can be something you prefer):
```prompt
conda create -n envName#remember to change the name!
# or
conda create --name envName
# with python=3.8
conda create -n envName python=3.8
```

- Activate a certain environment, such as `envName`：
```prompt
activate envName
# or
conda activate envName
```

- Deactivate the current environment:
```prompt
conda deactivate
```

- Delete a certain environment, such as `envName`:
```prompt
conda remove -n envName --all
```

- Install packages, such as numpy, I prefer install using `pip`:
```prompt
pip install numpy
# or
pip install numpy -i https://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/
# 临时从镜像阿里云下载
```

- See the packages installed in the `envName` environment:
```prompt
conda activate envName
conda list
# or
pip list
```

- Export the list of the packages installed in the `envName` environment:
```prompt
conda list --export > envName-requirements.txt
```

### §2.1 Install Jupyter Notebook in Miniconda

1. Since the `base` environment of Miniconda is kind of empty, you can install Jupyter Notebook on a new environment.
```prompt
conda create -n jupyter
activate jupyter
conda install jupyter notebook
```

2. Open Jupyter Notebook:
```prompt
activate jupyter
jupyter notebook
```
And there should be a Jupyter Notebook (jupyter) application in the start menu of Windows, you can just click it.

3. If you want to change to other environments such as `envName` when using Jupyter Notebook:
```prompt
conda activate jupyter
conda install nb_conda_kernels
conda activate envName
conda install ipykernel
python -m ipykernel install --user --name=envName
```